functions/readme.md, before:

# Azure Function Containers

Azure functions run the backend of the game. All things happening that aren't controlled by the UI in `app`. All functions do some variation of running a query and then updating the graph. 

![Alt text](/docs/img/Exodestiny.png?raw=true "docker cicd")

## Mapping the functions
The functions all serve various different functions. Usually grouped by computational efficiency rather than ontological sense.
- time
    - resolves actions
    - updates the global clock (UCT)
- popgrowth
    - Facilitates population growth
    - Facilitates population resource consumption
        - inluding starving and death by starvation
- cosmicevents
    - Planetary resource renewal


## Layout of an exodestiny funciton
- function
    - `__init__.py`  _Just the main funciton_
    - tools
        - _Methods that run the actual code_
    - `cmdb_graph.py` module that executes queries and interacts with the graph. 


# Dev Cycle Steps:


## Creating the local development environment
The Azure Func Tools don't support conda environments, so I'm using a regular python env. This will need to be done anytime `requirements.txt` is updated OR when the environment variables are reset. This is just for the local environment. This is also ideal because the local environment supports features like notebooks and charts that aren't needed in the web. 
```
python -m venv .venv
.venv\scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 1. activate the env
```
.venv\scripts\activate
```


### 2. start the listeners
start the `[azurite table service]`, `[azurite queue service]`, and `[azurite blob service]`

### 3. set the function to run on start
timer functions don't run unless the timer goes off. in order to set them to run automatically, use `"RunOnStartup":true`
This is automatically commented out in the `function.json`. Don't forget to remove after testing before you deploy. 


## Updating the environment in the cloud:
to get the settings into your local file:
```
az webapp config appsettings list --name <app-name> --resource-group <group-name> > application_settings.json
```
To update those settings: 
```
az webapp config appsettings set --resource-group <group-name> --name <app-name> --settings @application_settings.json
```

## Creating a new function
Note that because of cross-origin security risk, I've decided against using HTTP functions on the cloud. All client to web requests will happen withing the django application. Those routes are in the `app/urls.py`.

You can get a list of the templates from: `func templates list`
```
func new --name <name> --template "from the template list" 
```

## Test the function locally
In order to test timer functions locally, you need to change the configuration: `// "RunOnStartup":true,`. This must be commented out when publishing. This will automatically run the function when you execute the command line: `func start`.


## Push it to prod
There isn't a dev environment on the web, so this will push it directly into prod. Test on your local machine. Then the deploy function within VSC is used to push the function into prod. This means that the code for functions is updated differently than the webapp (wich updates on a GH action). I'll add that to the CICD process when I build a legit "dev" engvironment. As the local machine is the dev environment for now, this is not needed. 


# More useful docs:

[following the instructions here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-function-linux-custom-image?msclkid=c1eb6712ce8311ecbf167992dfbfb6bc&tabs=in-process%2Cbash%2Cazure-cli&pivots=programming-language-python#create-and-test-the-local-functions-project)

[`func` cli tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-core-tools-reference?msclkid=3b9f5557cf4211eca6b47532b3132c61&tabs=v2#func-templates-list)

[chron examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-timer?tabs=in-process&pivots=programming-language-python#ncrontab-expressions)

Commit message:

Script to load files from the main library

functions/readme.md, after:

# Azure Function Containers

Azure functions run the backend of the game. All things happening that aren't controlled by the UI in `app`. All functions do some variation of running a query and then updating the graph. 

![Alt text](/docs/img/Exodestiny.png?raw=true "docker cicd")

## Mapping the functions
The functions all serve various different functions. Usually grouped by computational efficiency rather than ontological sense.
- time
    - resolves actions
    - updates the global clock (UCT)
- popgrowth
    - Facilitates population growth
    - Facilitates population resource consumption
        - inluding starving and death by starvation
- cosmicevents
    - Planetary resource renewal


## Layout of an exodestiny funciton
- function
    - `__init__.py`  _Just the main funciton_
    - tools
        - _Methods that run the actual code_
    - `cmdb_graph.py` module that executes queries and interacts with the graph. 


# Dev Cycle Steps:


## Creating the local development environment
The Azure Func Tools don't support conda environments, so I'm using a regular python env. This will need to be done anytime `requirements.txt` is updated OR when the environment variables are reset. This is just for the local environment. This is also ideal because the local environment supports features like notebooks and charts that aren't needed in the web. 
```
python -m venv .venv
.venv\scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 1. activate the env
```
.venv\scripts\activate
```


### 2. start the listeners
start the `[azurite table service]`, `[azurite queue service]`, and `[azurite blob service]`

### 3. set the function to run on start
timer functions don't run unless the timer goes off. in order to set them to run automatically, use `"RunOnStartup":true`
This is automatically commented out in the `function.json`. Don't forget to remove after testing before you deploy. 


### 4. run the function
`func start`

## Updating the environment in the cloud:
to get the settings into your local file:
```
az webapp config appsettings list --name <app-name> --resource-group <group-name> > application_settings.json
```
To update those settings: 
```
az webapp config appsettings set --resource-group <group-name> --name <app-name> --settings @application_settings.json
```

## Creating a new function
Note that because of cross-origin security risk, I've decided against using HTTP functions on the cloud. All client to web requests will happen withing the django application. Those routes are in the `app/urls.py`.

You can get a list of the templates from: `func templates list`
```
func new --name <name> --template "from the template list" 
```

## Test the function locally
In order to test timer functions locally, you need to change the configuration: `// "RunOnStartup":true,`. This must be commented out when publishing. This will automatically run the function when you execute the command line: `func start`.


## Push it to prod
There isn't a dev environment on the web, so this will push it directly into prod. Test on your local machine. Then the deploy function within VSC is used to push the function into prod. This means that the code for functions is updated differently than the webapp (wich updates on a GH action). I'll add that to the CICD process when I build a legit "dev" engvironment. As the local machine is the dev environment for now, this is not needed. 

## Moving the library from the main app
In order to reduce redundancy and ensure consistency, the main methods and objects are defined in `app/objects`. Azure functions are encolsed units and can't pull from the main source. So you have to copy the files. 
**Rule** the azure functions should only have the execution of the objects and logs. No extra code. That way the process can be tested locally. 

To migrate the objects into the azure function.
`\functions> python transfer_code.py`

# More useful docs:

[following the instructions here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-function-linux-custom-image?msclkid=c1eb6712ce8311ecbf167992dfbfb6bc&tabs=in-process%2Cbash%2Cazure-cli&pivots=programming-language-python#create-and-test-the-local-functions-project)

[`func` cli tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-core-tools-reference?msclkid=3b9f5557cf4211eca6b47532b3132c61&tabs=v2#func-templates-list)

[chron examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-timer?tabs=in-process&pivots=programming-language-python#ncrontab-expressions)
